If the Cardinals heed Manager Gene Mauch of the Phillies, they won't be misled by the Pirates' slower start this season. 
"Pittsburgh definitely is the team to beat", Mauch said here the other day. 
"The Pirates showed they could outclass the field last year. 
They have the same men, no age problem, no injuries and they also have Vinegar Bend Mizell for the full season, along with Bobby Shantz". 
Tonight at 8 o'clock the Cardinals, who gave the Pirates as much trouble as anyone did in 1960, breaking even with them, will get their first 1961 shot at baseball's world champions. 
The Redbirds' disheartening 11 - 7 collapse against the Phillies Sunday. 
Manager Hemus, eager to end a pitching slump that has brought four losses in the five games on the current home stand, moved Gibson to the Wednesday night starting assignment. 
After Thursday's open date, Solly plans to open with Larry Jackson against the Cubs here Friday night.
Harvey Haddix, set back by the flu this season, will start against his former Cardinal mates, who might be playing without captain Kenny Boyer in tonight's game at Busch Stadium.
Boyer is suffering from a stiff neck. 
Haddix has a 13 - 8 record against the Redbirds, despite only a 1 - 3 mark in 1960. 
Pirate Manager Danny Murtaugh said he hadn't decided between Mizell and Vern Law for Wednesday's game. 
Mizell has won both of his starts. 
After a lengthy workout yesterday, an open date, Hemus said that Bob Nieman definitely would stay in the lineup. 
That means Stan Musial probably will ride the bench on the seventh anniversary of his record five home run day against the Giants. 
"I have to stay with Nieman for a while", Hemus said. 
"Bill White (sore ankles) should be ready. 
With a lefthander going for Pittsburgh, I may use Don Taussig in center". 
"Lindy McDaniel threw batting practice about 25 minutes, and he looked good", Hemus said. 
"He should be getting back in the groove before long. 
Our pitching is much better than it has shown". 
The statistics hardly indicated that the Pirates needed extra batting practice, but Murtaugh also turned his men loose at Busch Stadium yesterday. 
Until the Bucs' bats quieted down a bit in Cincinnati over the weekend, the champions had eight men hitting over.300. 
Despite the recession, Pittsburgh came into town with this imposing list of averages: 
Smoky Burgess.455, Gino Cimoli.389, Bill Virdon.340, Bob Clemente and Dick Groat, each.323, Dick Stuart.306, Don Hoak.280 and Bob Skinner.267., Bill Mazeroski with.179 and Hal Smith with.143 were the only Pirates dragging their feet. 
Perhaps the Pirate who will be the unhappiest over the news that Musial probably will sit out most of the series is Bob Friend, who was beaten by The Man twice last season on dramatic home runs. 
Friend is off to a great start with a 4 - 0 record but isn't likely to see action here this week.
"We're getting Friend some runs for a change, and he has been pitching good", Murtaugh said.
"Virdon has been blasting the ball. 
No plunkers for him". 
The Pirates jumped off to an 11 - 3 start by May 1 last year, when the Redbirds as well as the Dodgers held them even over the season. 
On last May 1, the Cardinals stood at 7 - 6, ending a two season fall-off on that milestone. 
In 1958, the Birds were 3 - 10 on May 1.
A year later they were 4 - 13. 
Since 1949, the St. Louis club has been below.500 on May 1 just four times.
The'49 team was off to a so-so 5 - 5 beginning, then fell as low as 12 - 17 on May 23 before finishing with 96 victories. 
The'52 Cards were 6 - 7 on May 1 but ended with 88 triumphs, the club's top since 1949. 
Then last season the Birds tumbled as low as 11 - 18 on May 19 before recovering to make a race of it and total 86 victories. 
Since 1949, the only National League club that got off to a hot start and made a runaway of the race was the'55 Dodger team.
Those Dodgers won their first 10 games and owned a 21 - 2 mark and a nine game lead by May 8. 
The club that overcame the worst start in a comparable period to win the pennant was New York's'51 Giants, who dropped 11 of their first 13. 
They honored the battling Billikens last night. 
Speakers at a Tipoff Club dinner dealt lavish praise to a group of St. Louis University players who, in the words of Coach John Benington, "had more confidence in themselves than I did". 
The most valuable player award was split three ways, among Glen Mankowski, Gordon Hartweger and Tom Kieffer. 
In addition, a special award was given to Bob (Bevo) Nordmann, the 6 - foot - 10 center who missed much of the season because of a knee injury. 
"You often hear people talk about team spirit and that sort of thing", Benington said in a conversation after the ceremonies, "but what this team had was a little different. 
The boys had a tremendous respect for each other's ability. 
They knew what they could do and it was often a little more than I thought they could do.
"Several times I found the players pepping me up, where it usually is the coach who is supposed to deliver the fight talk. 
We'd be losing at halftime to a good team and Hartweger would say,' don't worry, Coach - we'll get'em all right"'. 
The trio who shared the most-valuable honors were introduced by Bob Broeg, sports editor of the Post-Dispatch. 
Kieffer, the only junior in the group, was commended for his ability to hit in the clutch, as well as his all-round excellent play.
Mankowski, the ball-hawking defensive expert, was cited for his performance against Bradley in St. Louis U.'s nationally televised victory. 
Benington said, "I've never seen a player have a game as great as Mankowski did against Bradley that day". 
Benington recalled that he once told Hartweger that he doubted Gordon would ever play much for him because he seemed to be lacking in all of the accepted basketball skills. 
After the coach listed all the boy's faults, Hartweger said, "Coach before I leave here, you'll get to like me".
Mrs. Benington admired Gordon's spirit and did what she could to persuade her husband that the boy might help the team. 
As Hartweger accepted his silver bowl, he said, "I want to thank coach's wife for talking him into letting me play". 
Bob Burnes, sports editor of the Globe-Democrat, presented Bob Nordmann with his award. 
Bevo was congratulated for his efforts to stay in shape so that he could help the team if his knee healed in time. 
Within a week after the injury, suffered in St. Louis's victory in the final game of the Kentucky tournament, Nordmann was sitting on the Bi ll's bench doing what he could to help Benington.
On the clock given him was the inscription, "For Outstanding Contribution to Billiken Basketball, 1960 - 61". 
Other lettermen from the team that compiled a 21 - 9 record and finished as runner-up in the National Invitation Tournament were: Art Hambric, Donnell Reid, Bill Nordmann, Dave Harris, Dave Luechtefeld and George Latinovich. 
"This team set a precedent that could be valuable in the future", Benington pointed out. 
"By winning against Bradley, Kentucky and Notre Dame on those teams' home courts, they showed that the home court advantage can be overcome anywhere and that it doesn's take a super team to do it". 
St. Louis University found a way to win a baseball game. 
Larry Scherer last night pitched a no-hit game, said to be the first in Billiken baseball history, as the Blue and White beat Southeast Missouri State College, 5 - 1, at Crystal City. 
The victory was the first of the season for the Billikens after nine defeats and a tie. 
The tie was against Southeast Missouri last Friday.
Scherer also had a big night at bat with four hits in five trips including a double, Len Boehmer also was 4 - for - 5 with two doubles and Dave Ritchie had a home run and a triple. 
St. Louis U. was to be in action again today with a game scheduled at 4 against Washington University at Ligget Field. 
The game opened a busy week for Washington. 
The Bears are set to play at Harris Teachers College at 3:30 tomorrow and have a doubleheader at Quincy, Ill., Saturday. 
If it's true that contented cows give more milk, why shouldn't happy ball players produce more base hits? 
The two top talents of the time, Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays, have hit the ball harder and more successfully so far this early season than at any period in careers which, to be frank about it, never have quite reached expectations. 
And that's meant as a boost, not a knock.
Mays and Mantle, both 10 - year men at 30, have so much ability that, baseball men agree, they've never hit the heights. 
Their heights, that is. 
Mantle, the bull-necked blond switch-hitter, had one sensational triple-crown season, 1959, when he batted.365 and also led the American League in home runs, 52, and RBIs, 130. 
Like the Yankees' slugger, Mays, the terror of the Giants, has had seasons that would be considered the ultimate by most players, but not by - or for - Willie.
His best years were 1954 when he hit.345 with 41 homers and'55 when he belted 51 home runs, drove in 127 and stole 24 bases. 
Now, apparently happier under new managers, Mays and Mantle, the perfect players, are behaving as though they're going to pass those previous peaks. 
Yes, we know, they're professionals, men paid to play, and they shouldn't care how they're handled, just as long as their names are spelled correctly on the first and fifteenth of each month. 
The truth is, though, that men react differently to different treatment. 
For that matter, Stan Musial is rare, possessing the disposition that enabled him to put out the same for seven managers, reserving his opinions, but not his effort. 
Mantle, it's apparent, resented Casey Stengel's attempts to push and prod him into the perfection the veteran manager saw as a thrilling possibility.
The old man was almost too possessive.
Stengel inherited DiMaggio, Rizzuto, but he brought up Mantle from Class C to the majors, from Joplin to New York. 
With the speed and power of the body beautiful he saw before him, Ol' Case wanted No. 7 to be not only the best homerun hitter, but also the best bunter, base-runner and outfielder. 
Stengel probably preached too much in the early days when the kid wanted to pop his bubble gum and sow his oats. 
Inheriting a more mature Mantle, who now has seen the sights on and off Broadway, Ralph Houk quietly bestowed, no pun intended, the mantle of authority on Mickey. 
The Major decided that, rather than be led, the slugger could lead.
And what leadership a proud Mantle has given so far. 
The opinion continues here that with a 162 - game schedule, pitching spread thin through a 10 - team league and a most inviting target in Los Angeles' Wrigley Field Jr., Mantle just might break the most glamorous record on the books, Babe Ruth's 60 homers of 1927. 
Mays' day came a day earlier for Willie than for the kids and Commies this year. 
Willie's wonderful walloping Sunday - four home runs - served merely to emphasize how happy he is to be playing for Alvin Dark. 
Next to Leo Durocher, Dark taught Mays the most when he was a grass green rookie rushed up to the Polo Grounds 10 years ago this month, to help the Giants win a dramatic pennant. 
Sizzling temperatures and hot summer pavements are anything but kind to the feet. 
That is why it is important to invest in comfortable, airy types of shoes. 
There are many soft and light shoe leathers available. 
Many styles have perforations and an almost weightlessness achieved via unlined leathers.
Softness is found in crushed textures. 
Styles run the gamut from slender and tapered with elongated toes to a newer squared toe shape. 
Heels place emphasis on the long legged silhouette.
Wine glass heels are to be found in both high and semi-heights. 
Stacked heels are also popular on dressy or tailored shoes.
Just the barest suggestion of a heel is found on teenage pumps. 
While white is the coolest summer shade, there are lots of pastel hues along with tintable fabrics that will blend with any wardrobe color. 
In the tintable group are high and little heels, squared and oval throats, and shantung like textures.
don't overlook the straws this year. 
They come in crisp basket weaves in natural honey hues, along with lacy open weaves with a lustre finish in natural, white, black and a whole range of colors.
In the casual field straws feature wedge heels of cork or carved wood in a variety of styles. 
For added comfort some of the Italian designed sandals have foam padded cushioning.
The citrus tones popular in clothing are also to be found afoot.
Orange and lemon are considered important as are such pastels as blue and lilac. 
In a brighter nautical vein is Ile de France blue. 
Contrast trim provides other touches of color.
Spectators in white crush textures dip toe and heel in smooth black, navy and taffy tan. 
Designed for summer comfort are the shoes illustrated. 
At the left is a pair of dressy straw pumps in a light, but crisp texture. 
In a lacy open weave shoes have a luster finish, braided collar and bow highlight on the squared throat. 
At right is a casual style in a crushed unlined white leather. 
Flats have a scalloped throat.
An electric toothbrush (Broxodent) may soon take its place next to the electric razor in the American bathroom. 
The brush moves up and down and is small enough to clean every dental surface, including the back of the teeth. 
In addition, the motor has the seal of approval of the Underwriters Laboratories, which means it is safe. 
The unit consists of a small motor that goes on as soon as it is plugged in.
The speed is controlled by pressing on the two brake buttons located where the index finger and thumb are placed when holding the motor. 
The brushes can be cleaned and sterilized by boiling and are detachable so that every member of the family can have his own.
Most of us brush our teeth by hand. 
The same can be said of shaving yet the electric razor has proved useful to many men. 
The electric toothbrush moves in a vertical direction, the way dentists recommend. 
In addition, it is small enough to get into crevices, jacket and crown margins, malposed anteriors, and the back teeth.
The bristles are soft enough to massage the gums and not scratch the enamel. 
It is conceivable that Broxodent could do a better job than ordinary brushing, especially in those who do not brush their teeth properly.
Several dentists and patients with special dental problems have experimented with the device.
The results were good although they are difficult to compare with hand brushing, particularly when the individual knows how to brush his teeth properly. 
The electric gadget is most helpful when there are many crowned teeth and in individuals who are elderly, bedfast with a chronic disease, or are handicapped by disorders such as cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy. 
But for many of us, it will prove an enjoyable luxury. 
It is not as convenient as the old type toothbrush and the paste tends to shimmy of the bristles. 
Since the apparatus is new, it requires experimentation and changes in technique. 
writes: Does numbness in the left hand at night, which awakens the person, indicate brain tumor? 
No. 
This is a common symptom and the cause usually is pressure on the nerve leading to the affected hand. 
The pressure may come from muscles, tendons, or bones anywhere from the neck to the hand. 
writes: Do steam baths have any health value? 
No, other than cleaning out the pores and making the sweat glands work harder. 
An ordinary hot bath or shower will do the same. 
writes: What makes my hands numb when sewing? 
There are many possibilities, including poor circulation, a variety of neurological conditions, and functional disorders. 
This manifestation may be an early sign of multiple sclerosis or the beginning of sewer's cramp. 
writes: Does a brace help in sciatica? 
A back brace might help, depending upon the cause of sciatica. 
writes: Does the cholesterol go down when most of the thyroid gland is removed? 
No. 
It usually goes up. 
The cholesterol level in the blood is influenced by the glands of the body. 
It is low when the thyroid is overactive and high when the gland is sluggish. 
The latter is likely to occur when the thyroid is removed. 
The gap between the bookshelf and the record cabinet grows smaller with each new recording catalogue. 
There's more reading and instruction to be heard on discs than ever before, although the spoken rather than the sung word is as old as Thomas Alva Edison's first experiment in recorded sound. 
Edison could hardly have guessed, however, that Sophocles would one day appear in stereo. 
If the record buyer's tastes are somewhat eclectic or even the slightest bit esoteric, he will find them satisfied on educational records. 
And he will avoid eye-strain in the process. 
Everything from poetry to phonetics, history to histrionics, philosophy to party games has been adapted to the turntable. 
For sheer ambition, take the Decca series titled modestly "Wisdom". 
Volumes One and Two, selected from the sound tracks of a television series, contain "conversations with the elder wise men of our day". 
These sages include poet Carl Sandburg, statesman Jawaharlal Nehru and sculptor Jacques Lipchitz, in Volume One, and playwright Sean O'Casey, David Ben-Gurion, philosopher Bertrand Russell and the late Frank Lloyd Wright in the second set. 
Hugh Downs is heard interviewing Wright, for an added prestige fillip.
There's more specialization and a narrower purpose in two albums recently issued by Dover Publications. 
Dover "publishes" what the company calls "Listen and Learn" productions designed to teach foreign languages. 
Previous presentations have been on French, Spanish, Russian, Italian, German and Japanese.
But the firm has recognized the tight dollar and the tourist's desire to visit the "smaller, less traveled and relatively inexpensive countries", and is now prepared to teach modern Greek and Portuguese through recordings. 
The respective vocabularies "essential for travel" are available in separate albums. 
Thanks to Spoken Arts Records, history buffs may hear Lincoln's "most memorable speeches and letters" in a two disc set, interpreted by Lincoln authority and lecturer Roy P. Basler. 
As a contemporary bonus, the set includes Carl Sandburg's address at a joint session of Congress, delivered on Lincoln's birthday two years ago. 
For those who "like poetry but never get around to reading it", the Library of Congress makes it possible for poets to be heard reading their own work. 
The program was instituted in 1940, and releases are available only from the Recording Laboratory of the Library of Congress, Washington 25, D. C. 
A catalogue is available on request. 
Newest on the list are John Ciardi, W. D. Snodgrass, I. A. Richards, Oscar Williams, Robert Hillyer, John Hall Wheelock, Stephen Vincent Benet, Edwin Muir, John Peal Bishop and Maxwell Bodenheim. 
Two poets are paired on each record, in the order given above. 
Decca is not the only large commercial company to impart instruction. 
RCA Victor has an ambitious and useful project in a stereo series called "Adventures in Music", which is an instructional record library for elementary schools.
Howard Mitchell and the National Symphony perform in the first two releases, designed for grades one and two. 
Teaching guides are included with each record.
In an effort to fortify himself against the unforeseen upsets sure to arise in the future, Herbert A. Leggett, banker editor of the Phoenix "Arizona Progress", reflects upon a few of the depressing experiences of the feverish fifties.
One of the roughest was the TV quiz shows, which gave him inferiority complexes. 
Though it was a great relief when the big brains on these shows turned out to be frauds and phonies, it did irreparable damage to the ego of the editor and many another intelligent, well-informed American. 
But the one that upset the financially wise was the professional dancer who related in a book how he parlayed his earnings into a $ 2000000 profit on the stock market. 
Every man who dabbles in the market to make a little easy money on the side and suffers losses could at the time hardly face his wife who was wondering how her husband could be so dumb. 
Investors breathed more freely when it was learned that this acrobatic dancer had turned magician and was only doing a best seller book to make some dough.
People who take us for suckers are like the Westerner who had on exhibit his superior marksmanship in the form of a number of bull's-eye achievements. 
The promoter who wanted to sign him up for the circus asked him how he was able to do it. 
His answer was simple but honest.
He just shot at the board and then drew circles around the holes to form a bull's-eye. 
One of the obstacles to the easy control of a 2 - year old child is a lack of verbal communication. 
The child understands no.
He senses his mother's disapproval. 
But explanations leave him confused and unmoved.
If his mother loves him, he clings to that love as a ballast.
It motivates his behavior. 
He wants Mommy to think him a good boy.
He doesn't want her to look frowningly at him, or speak to him angrily. 
This breaks his heart.
He wants to be called sweet, good, considerate and mother's little helper. 
But even mother's loving attitude will not always prevent misbehavior. 
His desires are so strong that he needs constant reassurance of his mother's love for him and what she expects of him, in order to overcome them. 
His own inner voice, which should tell him what not to do, has not developed.
It won't develop until he has words with which to clothe it.
The conscience is non-existent in the 2 - year old. 
What can a mother do then to prevent misbehavior? 
She can decrease the number of temptations. 
She can remove all knick-knacks within reach.
The fewer nos she has to utter the more effective they will be. 
She should offer substitutes for the temptations which seem overwhelmingly desirable to the child. 
If he can't play with Mommy's magazines, he should have some old numbers of his own.
If Daddy's books are out of bounds his own picture books are not.
Toys he has can be made to act as substitutes for family temptations such as refrigerator and gas stove. 
During this precarious period of development the mother should continue to influence the growth of the child's conscience. 
She tells him of the consequences of his behavior. 
If he bites a playmate she says, "Danny won't like you". 
If he snatches a toy, she says, "Caroline wants her own truck just as you do". 
There is no use trying to "Explain" to a 2 - year old. 
Actions speak louder. 
Remove temptations. 
Remove the child from the scene of his misbehavior. 
Substitute approved objects for forbidden ones and keep telling him how he is to act. 
He won't submit to his natural desires all the time, and it's Mother's love that is responsible for his good behavior. 
The nuclear war is already being fought, except that the bombs are not being dropped on enemy targets - not yet. 
It is being fought, moreover, in fairly close correspondence with the predictions of the soothsayers of the think factories. 
They predicted escalation, and escalation is what we are getting. 
The biggest nuclear device the United States has exploded measured some 15 megatons, although our B-52s are said to be carrying two 20 - megaton bombs apiece. 
Some time ago, however, Mr. Khrushchev decided that when bigger bombs were made, the Soviet Union would make them. 
He seems to have at least a few 30 - and 50 - megaton bombs on hand, since we cannot assume that he has exploded his entire stock. 
And now, of course, the hue and cry for counter escalation is being raised on our side. 
Khrushchev threatens us with a 100 - megaton bomb? 
So be it - then we must embark on a crash program for 200 - megaton bombs of the common or hydrogen variety, and neutron bombs, which do not exist but are said to be the coming thing.  
So escalation proceeds, ad infinitum or, more accurately, until the contestants begin dropping them on each other instead of on their respective proving grounds. 
What is needed, Philip Morrison writes in The Cornell Daily Sun (October 26) is a discontinuity. 
The escalation must end sometime, and probably quite soon. 
"Only a discontinuity can end it", Professor Morrison writes. 
"The discontinuity can either be that of war to destruction, or that of diplomatic policy". 
Morrison points out that since our country is more urbanized than the Soviet Union or Red China, it is the most vulnerable of the great powers - Europe of course must be written off out of hand. 
He feels, therefore, that to seek a discontinuity in the arms policy of the United States is the least risky path our government can take. 
His proposal is opposed to that of Richard Nixon, Governor Rockefeller, past chairmen Strauss and McCone of the Atomic Energy Commission, Dr. Edward Teller and those others now enjoying their hour of triumph in the exacerbation of the cold war. 
These gentlemen are calling for a resumption of testing - in the atmosphere - on the greatest possible scale, all in the name of national security. 
Escalation is their first love and their last; they will be faithful unto death. 
Capable as their minds may be in some directions, these guardians of the nation's security are incapable of learning, or even of observing.
If this capacity had not failed them, they would see that their enemy has made a disastrous miscalculation. 
He has gained only one thing - he has exploded a 50 - megaton bomb and he probably has rockets with sufficient thrust to lob it over the shorter intercontinental ranges. 
But if his purpose was to inspire terror, his action could hardly have miscarried more obviously. 
Not terror, but anger and resentment have been the general reaction outside the Soviet sphere.
Khrushchev himself is reported to be concerned by the surge of animosity he has aroused, yet our own nuclear statesmen seem intent on following compulsively in his footsteps. 
When one powerful nation strives to emulate the success of another, it is only natural.
Thus, when the Russians sent up their first sputnik, American chagrin was human enough, and American determination to put American satellites into orbit was perfectly understandable. 
But to imitate an opponent when he has made the mistake of his life would be a new high in statesmanlike folly. 
When East Germans fled to the West by the thousands, paeans of joy rose from the throats of Western publicists. 
They are less vocal now, when it is the West Berliners who are migrating. 
The flood is not as great - only 700 a week according to one apparently conservative account - but it is symptomatic. 
West Berlin morale is low and, in age distribution, the situation is unfavorable. 
Nearly 18 per cent of West Berlin's 2200000 residents are sixty-five or older, only 12.8 per cent are under fifteen. 
R. H. S. Crossman, M.P., writing in The Manchester Guardian, states that departures from West Berlin are now running at the rate not of 700, but of 1700 a week, and applications to leave have risen to 1900 a week. 
The official statistics show that 60 per cent are employed workers or independent professional people. 
Whole families are moving and removal firms are booked for months ahead. 
The weekly loss is partly counterbalanced by 500 arrivals each week from West Germany, but the hard truth, says Crossman, is that "The closing off of East Berlin without interference from the West and with the use only of East German, as distinct from Russian, troops was a major Communist victory, which dealt West Berlin a deadly, possibly a fatal, blow. 
The gallant half city is dying on its feet". 
Another piece of evidence appears in a dispatch from Bonn in the Observer (London). 
Mark Arnold-Foster writes: "People are leaving [ West Berlin ] because they think it is dying. 
They are leaving so fast that the president of the West German Employers' Federation issued an appeal this week to factory workers in the West to volunteer for six months' front-line work in factories in West Berlin. 
Berlin's resilience is amazing, but if it has to hire its labor in the West the struggle will be hard indeed". 
The handwriting is on the wall. 
The only hope for West Berlin lies in a compromise which will bring down the wall and reunite the city. 
State Department officials refusing to show their passes at the boundary, and driving two blocks into East Berlin under military escort, will not avail. 
Tanks lined up at the border will be no more helpful. 
The materials for compromise are at hand: The Nation, Walter Lippmann and other sober commentators (see Alan Clark on p. 367) have spelled them out again and again. 
A compromise will leave both sides without the glow of triumph, but it will save Berlin. 
Or the city can be a graveyard monument to Western intransigence, if that is what the West wants.
The removal of Stalin's body from the mausoleum he shared with Lenin to less distinguished quarters in the Kremlin wall is not unprecedented in history.
It is, in fact, a relatively mild chastisement of the dead.
A British writer, Richard Haestier, in a book, Dead Men Tell Tales, recalls that in the turmoil preceding French Revolution the body of Henry /4,, who had died nearly 180 years earlier, was torn to pieces by a mob. 
And in England, after the Restoration, the body of Cromwell was disinterred and hanged at Tyburn. 
The head was then fixed on a pole at Westminster, and the rest of the body was buried under the gallows. 
Contemplating these posthumous punishments, Stalin should not lose all hope. 
In 1899, Parliament erected a statue to Cromwell in Westminster, facing Whitehall and there, presumably, he still stands. 
Nikita Khrushchev, however, has created yet another problem for himself. 
The Lenin tomb is obviously adequate for double occupancy, Moscow is a crowded city, and the creed of communism deplores waste.
Who will take Stalin's place beside Lenin?
There is Karl Marx, of course, buried in London. 
The Macmillan government might be willing to let him go, but he has been dead seventy-eight years and even the Soviet morticians could not make him look presentable. 
Who, then, is of sufficient stature to lodge with Lenin? 
Who but Nikita himself? 
Since he has just shown who is top dog, he may not be ready to receive this highest honor in the gift of the Soviet people. 
Besides, he can hardly avoid musing on the instability of death which, what with exhumations and rehabilitations, seems to match that of life. 
Suppose he did lie beside Lenin, would it be permanent? 
If some future Khrushchev decided to rake up the misdeeds of his revered predecessor, would not the factory workers pass the same resolutions applauding his dispossession? 
When a man is laid to rest, he is entitled to stay put.
If Nikita buys a small plot in some modest rural cemetery, everyone will understand. 
The appointment of U Thant of Burma as the U.N.'s Acting Secretary General - at this writing, the choice appears to be certain - offers further proof that in politics it is more important to have no influential enemies than to have influential friends. 
Mongi Slim of Tunisia and Frederick Boland of Ireland were early favorites in the running, but France didn't like the former and the Soviet Union would have none of the latter. 
With the neutralists maintaining pressure for one of their own to succeed Mr. Hammarskjold, U Thant emerged as the only possible candidate unlikely to be waylaid by a veto.
What is interesting is that his positive qualifications for the post were revealed only as a kind of tail to his candidacy. 
In all the bitter in-fighting, the squabbles over election procedures, the complicated numbers game that East and West played on the assistant secretaries' theme, the gentleman from Burma showed himself both as a man of principle and a skilled diplomat.
He has, moreover, another qualification which augurs well for the future.
He is a Buddhist, which means that to him peace and the sanctity of human life are not only religious dogma, but a profound and unshakable Weltanschauung. 
U Thant of course, will hold office until the spring of 1963, when Mr. Hammarskjold's term would have come to an end. 
Whether the compromises - on both sides - that made possible the interim appointment can then be repeated remains to be seen. 
Mr. Khrushchev's demand for a troika is dormant, not dead; the West may or not remain satisfied with the kind of neutralism that U Thant represents. 
In a sense, the showdown promised by Mr. Hammarskjold's sudden and tragic death has been avoided; no precedents have been set as yet; structurally, the U.N. is still fluid, vulnerable to the pressures that its new and enlarged membership are bringing to bear upon it. 
But at least the pessimists who believed that the world organization had plunged to its death in that plane crash in the Congo have been proved wrong. 
No one who has studied the radical Right can suppose that words are their sole staple in trade. 
These are mentalities which crave action - and they are beginning to get it, as Messrs. Salsich and Engh report on page 372. 
Even in areas where political connotations are (deliberately?) left vague, the spirit of vigilantism is spreading. 
Friends, a picture magazine distributed by Chevrolet dealers, describes a paramilitary organization of employees of the Gulf Telephone Company at Foley, Alabama. 
"If the day should ever come that foreign invaders swarm ashore along the Gulf Coast", the account reads, "they can count on heavy opposition from a group of commando trained telephone employees - all girls. 
Heavily armed and mobilized as a fast moving Civil Defense outfit, 23 operators and office personnel stand ready to move into action at a minute's notice". 
According to Friends, the unit was organized by John Snook, a former World War /2, commando who is vice president and general manager of the telephone company. 
The girls, very fetching in their uniforms, are shown firing rockets from a launcher mounted on a dump truck; they are also trained with carbines, automatic weapons, pistols, rifles and other such ladies' accessories. 
This may be opera bouffe now, but it will become more serious should the cold war mount in frenzy.
The country is committed to the doctrine of security by military means. 
The doctrine has never worked; it is not working now. 
The official military establishment can only threaten to use its nuclear arms; it cannot bring them into actual play. 
A more dangerous formula for national frustration cannot be imagined.
As the civic temper rises, the more naive citizens begin to play soldier - but the guns are real.
Soon they will begin to hunt down the traitors they are assured are in our midst.
Color was delayed until 1935, the wide screen until the early fifties. 
Movement itself was the chief and often the only attraction of the primitive movies of the nineties. 
Each film consisted of fifty feet, which gives a running time of about one minute on the screen. 
As long as audiences came to see the movement, there seemed little reason to adventure further. 
Motion-picture exhibitions took place in stores in a general atmosphere like that of the penny arcade which can still be found in such urban areas as Times Square. 
Brief snips of actual events were shown: parades, dances, street scenes. 
The sensational and frightening enjoyed popularity: 
a train rushes straight at the audience, or a great wave threatens to break over the seats. 
An early Edison production was The Execution of Mary Queen of Scotts. 
The unfortunate queen mounted the scaffold; the headsman swung his axe; the head dropped off; end of film. 
An early film by a competitor of the Wizard of Menlo Park simply showed a long kiss performed by two actors of the contemporary stage. 
In the field of entertainment there is no spur to financial daring so effective as audience boredom, and the first decade of the new device was not over before audiences began staying away in large numbers from the simple-minded, one minute shows. 
In response, the industry allowed the discovery of the motion picture as a form of fiction and thus gave the movies the essential form they have had to this day. 
Despite the sheer beauty and spectacle of numerous documentaries, art films, and travelogues, despite the impressive financial success of such a recent development as Cinerama, the movies are at heart a form of fiction, like the play, the novel, or the short story. 
Moreover, the most artistically successful of the nonfiction films have invariably borrowed the narrative form from the fiction feature. 
Thus such great American documentaries as The River and The Plow That Broke the Plains were composed as visual stories rather than as illustrated lectures. 
The discovery that movies are a form of fiction was made in the early years of this  century and it was made chiefly by two men, a French magician, Georges Melies, and an American employee of Edison, Edwin S. Porter. 
Of the two, Porter is justly the better known, for he went far beyond the vital finding of fiction for films to take the first step toward fashioning a language of film, toward making the motion picture the intricate, efficient time machine that it has remained since, even in the most inept hands. 
Melies, however, out of his professional instincts as a magician, discovered and made use of a number of illusionary techniques that remain part of the vocabulary of film. 
One of these is the "dissolve", which makes possible a visually smooth transition from scene to scene. 
As the first scene begins to fade, the succeeding scene begins to appear. 
For a moment or two, both scenes are present simultaneously, one growing weaker, one growing stronger. 
In a series of fairy tales and fantasies, Melies demonstrated that the film is superbly equipped to tell a straightforward story, with beginning, middle and end, complications, resolutions, climaxes, and conclusions. 
Immediately, the film improved and it improved because in narrative it found a content based on time to complement its own unbreakable connection with time. 
Physically, a movie is possible because a series of images is projected one at a time at such a speed that the eye "remembers" the one that has gone before even as it registers the one now appearing. 
Linking the smoothly changing images together, the eye itself endows them with the illusion of movement. 
The "projection" time of painting and sculpture is highly subjective, varying from person to person and even varying for a given person on different occasions. 
So is the time of the novel. 
The drama in the theater and the concert in the hall both have a fixed time, but the time is fixed by the director and the players, the conductor and the instrumentalists, subject, therefore, to much variation, as record collectors well know. 
The time of the motion picture is fixed absolutely. 
The film consists of a series of still, transparent photographs, or "frames", 35 - mm. - wide. 
Each frame comes between the light and the lens and is individually projected on the screen, at the rate, for silent movies, of 16 frames per second, and, for sound films, 24 frames per second. 
This is the rate of projection; it is also the rate of photographing. 
Time is built into the motion picture, which cannot exist without time. 
Now time is also the concern of the fictional narrative, which is, at its simplest, the story of an action with, usually, a beginning, a middle, and an end - elements which demand time as the first condition for their existence. 
The "moving" picture of the train or the wave coming at the audience is, to be sure, more intense than a still picture of the same subject, but the difference is really one of degree; the cinematic element of time is merely used to increase the realism of an object which would still be reasonably realistic in a still photo. 
In narrative, time is essential, as it is in film. 
Almost everything about the movies that is peculiarly of the movies derives from a tension created and maintained between narrative time and film time. 
This discovery of Melies was vastly more important than his sometimes dazzling, magician's tricks produced on film. 
It was Porter, however, who produced the very first movie whose name has lived on through the half century of film history that has since ensued. 
The movie was The Great Train Robbery and its effects on the young industry and art were all but incalculable. 
Overnight, for one thing, Porter's film multiplied the standard running time of movies by ten. 
The Great Train Robbery is a one reel film. 
One reel - from eight to twelve minutes - became the standard length from the year of Robbery, 1903, until Griffith shattered that limit forever with Birth of a Nation in 1915. 
The reel itself became and still is the standard of measure for the movies. 
The material of the Porter film is simplicity itself; much of it has continued to be used over the years and the heart of it - good guys and bad guys in the old West - pretty well dominated television toward the end of the 1950's. 
A band of robbers enters a railroad station, overpowers and ties up the telegraph operator, holds up the train and escapes. 
A posse is formed and pursues the robbers, who, having made their escape, are whooping it up with some wild, wild women in a honky-tonk hide-out. 
The robbers run from the hide-out, take cover in a wooded declivity, and are shot dead by the posse. 
As a finale is appended a close-up of one of the band taking aim and firing his revolver straight at the audience. 
All this is simple enough, but in telling the story Porter did two important things that had not been done before. 
Each scene is shot straight through, as had been the universal custom, from a camera fixed in a single position, but in the outdoor scenes, especially in the capture and destruction of the outlaws, Porter's camera position breaks, necessarily, with the camera position standard until then, which had been, roughly, that of a spectator in a center orchestra seat at a play. 
The plane of the action in the scene is not parallel with the plane of the film in the camera or on the screen. 
If the change, at first sight, seems minor, we may recall that it took the Italian painters about two hundred years to make an analogous change, and the Italian painters, by universal consent, were the most brilliant group of geniuses any art has seen. 
In that apparently simple shift Porter opened the way to the sensitive use of the camera as an instrument of art as well as a mechanical recording device. 
He did more than that. 
He revealed the potential value of the "cut" as the basic technique in the art of the film. 
Cutting, of course, takes place automatically in the creation of a film. 
The meaning of the word is quite physical, to begin with. 
The physical film is cut with a knife at the end of one complete sequence, and the cut edge is joined physically, by cement, to the cut edge of the beginning of the next sequence. 
If, as a home movie maker, you shoot the inevitable footage of your child taking its first steps, you have merely recorded an historical event. 
If, in preparing that shot for the inevitable showing to your friends, you interrupt the sequence to paste in a few frames of the child's grandmother watching this event, you have begun to be an artist in film; you are employing the basic technique of film; you are cutting. 
This is what Porter did. 
As the robbers leave the looted train, the film suddenly cuts back to the station, where the telegrapher's little daughter arrives with her father's dinner pail only to find him bound on the floor. 
She dashes around in alarm. 
The two events are taking place at the same time. 
Time and space have both become cinematic. 
We leap from event to event - including the formation of the posse - even though the events, in "reality" are taking place not in sequence but simultaneously, and not near each other but at a considerable distance. 
The "chase" as a standard film device probably dates from The Great Train Robbery, and there is a reason for the continued popularity of the device. 
The chase in itself is a narrative; it presumes both speed and urgency and it demands cutting - both from pursued to pursuer and from stage to stage of the journey of both. 
The simple, naked idea of one man chasing another is of its nature better fitted for the film than it is for any other form of fiction. 
The cowboy films, the cops and robbers films, and the slapstick comedy films culminating in an insane chase are not only catering to what critics may assume to be a vulgar taste for violence; these films and these sequences are also seeking out - instinctively or by design - the peculiarly cinematic elements of narrative. 
There still remained the need for one great film artist to explore the full potential of the new form and to make it an art. 
The man was D.W. Griffith. 
When he came to the movies - more or less by accident - they were still cheap entertainment capable of enthralling the unthinking for an idle few minutes. 
In about seven years Griffith either invented or first realized the possibilities of virtually every resource at the disposal of the film maker.
Before he was forty Griffith had created the art of the film. 
Not that there had not been attempts, mostly European, to do exactly that. 
But in general the European efforts to make an art of the entertainment had ignored the slowly emerging language of the film itself. 
Staggeringly condensed versions of famous novels and famous plays were presented. 
Great actors and actresses - the most notable being Sarah Bernhardt - were hired to repeat their stage performances before the camera. 
In all of this extensive and expensive effort, the camera was downgraded to the status of recording instrument for art work produced elsewhere by the actor or by the author. 
The phonograph today, for all its high fidelity and stereophonic sound, is precisely what the early art purveyors in the movies wished to make of the camera. 
Not surprisingly, this approach did not work. 
The effort produced a valuable record of stage techniques in the early years of the century and some interesting records of great theater figures who would otherwise be only names. 
But no art at all was born of the art effort in the early movies. 
Northern liberals are the chief supporters of civil rights and of integration.
They have also led the nation in the direction of a welfare state. 
And both in their objectives of non-discrimination and of social progress they have had ranged against them the Southerners who are called Bourbons. 
The name presumably derives from the French royal house which never learned and never forgot; since Bourbon whiskey, though of Kentucky origin, is at least as much favored by liberals in the North as by conservatives in the South. 
The nature of the opposition between liberals and Bourbons is too little understood in the North. 
The race problem has tended to obscure other, less emotional, issues which may fundamentally be even more divisive. 
It is these other differences between North and South - other, that is, than those which concern discrimination or social welfare - which I chiefly discuss herein. 
I write about Northern liberals from considerable personal experience. 
A Southerner married to a New Englander, I have lived for many years in a Connecticut commuting town with a high percentage of artists, writers, publicity men, and business executives of egghead tastes. 
Most of them are Democrats and nearly all consider themselves, and are viewed as, liberals. 
This is puzzling to an outsider conscious of the classic tradition of liberalism, because it is clear that these Democrats who are left-of-center are at opposite poles from the liberal Jefferson, who held that the best government was the least government. 
Yet paradoxically my liberal friends continue to view Jefferson as one of their patron saints. 
When I question them as to what they mean by concepts like liberty and democracy, I find that they fall into two categories: the simpler ones who have simply accepted the shibboleths of their faith without analysis; and the intelligent, cynical ones who scornfully reply that these things don't count any more in the world of to-day. 
I am naive, they say, to make use of such words.
I take this to mean that the intelligent - and therefore necessarily cynical? - liberal considers that the need for a national economy with controls that will assure his conception of social justice is so great that individual and local liberties as well as democratic processes may have to yield before it. 
This seems like an attitude favoring a sort of totalitarian bureaucracy which, under a President of the same stamp, would try to coerce an uncooperative Congress or Supreme Court. 
As for states' rights, they have never counted in the thinking of my liberal friends except as irritations of a minor and immoral nature which exist now only as anachronisms. 
The American liberal may, in the world of to-day, have a strong case; but he presents it publicly so enmeshed in hypocrisy that it is not an honest one. 
Why, in the first place, call himself a liberal if he is against laissez-faire and favors an authoritarian central government with womb-to-tomb controls over everybody? 
If he attaches little importance to personal liberty, why not make this known to the world? 
And if he is so scornful of the rights of states, why not advocate a different sort of constitution that he could more sincerely support? 
I am concerned here, however, with the Northern liberal's attitude toward the South. 
It appears to be one of intense dislike, which he makes little effort to conceal even in the presence of Southern friends. 
His assumption seems to be that any such friends, being tolerable humans, must be more liberal than most Southerners and therefore at least partly in sympathy with his views. 
Time's editor, Thomas Griffith, in his book, The Waist High Culture, wrote: "most of what was different about it (the Deep South) I found myself unsympathetic to". 
This, for the liberals I know, would be an understatement. 
Theirs is no mere lack of sympathy, but something closer to the passionate hatred that was directed against Fascism. 
I do not think that my experience would be typical for Southerners living in the North. 
In business circles, usually conservative, this sort of atmosphere would hardly be found. 
But in our case - and neither my wife nor I have extreme views on integration, nor are we given to emotional outbursts - the situation has ruined one or two valued friendships and come close to wrecking several more. 
In fact it has caused us to give serious thought to moving our residence south, because it is not easy for the most objective Southerner to sit calmly by when his host is telling a roomful of people that the only way to deal with Southerners who oppose integration is to send in troops and shoot the bastards down. 
Accounts have been published of Northern liberals in the South up against segregationist prejudice, especially in state-supported universities where pressure may be strong to uphold the majority view. 
But these accounts do not show that Northerners have been subjected to embarrassment or provocation by Yankee hatred displayed in social gatherings. 
From my wife's experience and other sources, this seems to be rarely encountered in educated circles. 
The strong feeling is certainly there; but there is a leavening of liberalism among college graduates throughout the South, especially among those who studied in the North. 
And social relations arising out of business ties impose courtesy, if not sympathy, toward resident and visiting Northerners. 
Also, among the latter a large percentage soon acquire the prevalent Southern attitude on most social problems. 
There are of course many Souths; but for this discussion the most important division is between those who have been reconstructed and those who haven't. 
My definition of this much abused adjective is that a reconstructed rebel is one who is glad that the North won the War. 
Nobody knows how many Southerners there are in this category.
I suspect that there are far more unreconstructed ones than the North likes to believe.
I never heard of a poll being taken on the question. 
No doubt such a thing would be considered unpatriotic. 
Prior to 1954 I imagine that a majority of Southerners would have voted against the Confederacy.
Since the Supreme Court's decision of that year this is more doubtful; and if a poll had been taken immediately following the dispatch of troops to Little Rock I believe the majority would have been for the Old South. 
Belief in the traditional way of life persists much more in the older states than in the new ones. 
Probably a larger percentage of Virginians and South Carolinians remain unreconstructed than elsewhere, with Georgia, North Carolina, and Alabama following along after them. 
Old attitudes are held more tenaciously in the Tidewater than the Piedmont; so that a line running down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater would roughly divide the Old South from the new, but with, of course, important minority enclaves. 
The long settled areas of states like Virginia and South Carolina developed the ante-bellum culture to its richest flowering, and there the memory is more precious, and the consciousness of loss the greater. 
Also, we should not even to-day discount the fact that a region such as the coastal lowlands centering on Charleston had closer ties with England and the West Indies than with the North even after independence. 
The social and psychological consequences of this continue to affect the area. 
In certain respects defeat increased the persistent Anglophilia of the Old South. 
Poor where they had once been rich, humbled where they had been arrogant, having no longer any hope of sharing in the leadership of the nation, the rebels who would not surrender in spirit drew comfort from the sympathy they felt extended to them by the mother country.
And no doubt many people in states like the Carolinas and Georgia, which were among the most Tory in sentiment in the eighteenth century, bitterly regretted the revolt against the Crown. 
Among Bourbons the racial issue may have less to do with their remaining unreconstructed than other factors. 
All Southerners agree that slavery had to go; but many historians maintain that except for Northern meddling it would have ended in states like Virginia years before it did.
Southern resentment has been over the method of its ending, the invasion, and Reconstruction; their fears now are of miscegenation and Negro political control in many counties. 
But apart from racial problems, the old unreconstructed South - to use the moderate words favored by Mr. Thomas Griffith - finds itself unsympathetic to most of what is different about the civilization of the North. 
And this, in effect, means most of modern America. 
It is hard to see how the situation could be otherwise. 
And therein, I feel, many Northerners delude themselves about the South. 
For one thing, this is not a subject often discussed or analyzed. 
There seems to be almost a conspiracy of silence veiling it. 
I suppose the reason is a kind of wishful thinking: don't talk about the final stages of Reconstruction and they will take care of themselves. 
Or else the North really believes that all Southerners except a few quaint old characters have come around to realizing the errors of their past, and are now at heart sharers of the American Dream, like everybody else. 
If the circumstances are faced frankly it is not reasonable to expect this to be true. 
The situation of the South since 1865 has been unique in the western world. 
Regardless of rights and wrongs, a population and an area appropriate to a pre World War I, great power have been, following conquest, ruled against their will by a neighboring people, and have had imposed upon them social and economic controls they dislike. 
And the great majority of these people are of Anglo-Saxon or Celtic descent. 
This is the only case in modern history of a people of Britannic origin submitting without continued struggle to what they view as foreign domination. 
The fact is due mainly to international wars, both hot and cold. 
In every war of the United States since the Civil War the South was more belligerent than the rest of the country. 
So instead of being tests of the South's loyalty, the Spanish War, the two World Wars, and the Korean War all served to overcome old grievances and cement reunion. 
And there is no section of the nation more ardent than the South in the cold war against Communism. 
Had the situation been reversed, had, for instance, England been the enemy in 1898 because of issues of concern chiefly to New England, there is little doubt that large numbers of Southerners would have happily put on their old Confederate uniforms to fight as allies of Britain. 
It is extraordinary that a people as proud and warlike as Southerners should have been as docile as they have. 
The North should thank its stars that such has been the case; but at the same time it should not draw false inferences therefrom. 
The two main charges levelled against the Bourbons by liberals is that they are racists and social reactionaries. 
There is much truth in both these charges, and not many Bourbons deny them. 
Whatever their faults, they are not hypocrites. 
Most of them sincerely believe that the Anglo-Saxon is the best race in the world and that it should remain pure. 
Many Northerners believe this, too, but few of them will say so publicly. 
The Bourbon economic philosophy, moreover, is not very different from that of Northern conservatives. 
But those among the Bourbons who remain unreconstructed go much further than this. 
They believe that if the South had been let alone it would have produced a civilization superior to that of modern America. 
As it is, they consider that the North is now reaping the fruits of excess egalitarianism, that in spite of its high standard of living the "American way" has been proved inferior to the English and Scandinavian ways, although they disapprove of the socialistic features of the latter. 
The South's antipathy to Northern civilization includes such charges as poor manners, harsh accents, lack of appreciation of the arts of living like gastronomy and the use of leisure. 
Their own easier, slower tempo is especially dear to Southerners; and I have heard many say that they are content to earn a half or a third as much as they could up North because they so much prefer the quieter habits of their home town. 
